The Emerging Wave of Decentralized Applications
===============================================

Table of Contents
-----------------

1.   Introduction
    1.   The emergence of decentralized applications
    2.  Definition of a decentralized application
    3.   Bitcoin as a decentralized application
    4.  Classification of decentralized applications
2.   The operation of a decentralized application
    1.   Mechanisms for establishing consensus
    2.   Mechanisms for distributing tokens
    3.   Formation and development of a decentralized application
3.   Conclusion
4.   Appendix
    1.   Legal model for decentralized applications
    2.   The Coming Wave of Type III Decentralized Applications Built
        On Top of The Bitcoin Protocol - Additional Layers such as
        Mastercoin Protocol
    3.   Decentralized Applications in Operation and Under
        Development
    4.   Why Not Term These “Distributed Autonomous Corporations”?
    5.   What about Open Source Apps Based on an Existing
        Blockchain? 
    6.   Etymology - Decentralized Applications part of a larger
        framework

Introduction
------------

### The emergence of decentralized applications

A new model for building successful and massively scalable applications
is emerging. Bitcoin led the way with its open-source, peer-to-peer
nature, cryptographically-stored records (block chain), and limited
number of tokens that power the use of its features. Several
[applications](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/List_of_Decentralized_Autonomous_Corporations)
are adopting the Bitcoin model in order to succeed.
[BitShares](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RLcjSXWuU9vBJzzqLEXVACSCdn8zXKTTJRN_LfoCjNY/edit),
[Mastercoin](http://www.mastercoin.org/) and Meshcoin are just a few of
those "decentralized applications" that use a variety of methods to
operate. Some use their own block chain (BitShares), some use existing
block chains and issue their own tokens (Master Protocol and
Mastercoin), and others operate at two layers above an existing block
chain and issue their own tokens (Meshcoin).

This paper describes why decentralized applications have the potential
to be immensely successful, how the different types of decentralized
applications can be classified, and introduces terminology that aims to
be accurate and helpful to the community. Finally, this paper postulates
that these decentralized applications will some day surpass the world’s
largest software corporations in utility, user base, and network
valuation due to their superior incentivization structure, flexibility,
transparency, resiliency, and distributed nature.

### Definition of a decentralized application

For an application to be considered a DA, it must meet the following
criteria:

1.  The application must be completely
    [open-source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source), it must
    operate autonomously with no entity controlling the majority of its
    tokens, and its data and records of operation must be
    cryptographically stored in a public, decentralized [block
    chain](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Block_chain).

2.  The application must generate tokens according to a standard
    algorithm or set of criteria and possibly distribute some or all of
    its tokens at the beginning of its operation. These tokens must be
    necessary for the use of the application and any contribution from
    users should be rewarded by payment in the application's tokens.

3.  The application may adapt its protocol in response to proposed
    improvements and market feedback but all changes must be decided by
    majority consensus of its users.

### Bitcoin as a decentralized application

Satoshi Nakamoto, the creator of Bitcoin described his invention as “A
Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash
System[[2]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt2)”. Bitcoin has been
shown to effectively solve the problems that arise from a trustless and
scalable electronic cash system by using a peer-to-peer, distributed
ledger, the Bitcoin block chain. In addition to being a peer-to-peer
electronic cash system, Bitcoin is also an application that users can
interact with through computer software). But most importantly for the
purposes of this paper, based on the criteria outlined above, Bitcoin is
a decentralized application because:

1.  All Bitcoin applications are open-source, no entity (government,
    company, or organization) controls Bitcoin and all records related
    to the use of Bitcoin are open and public.

2.  Bitcoin generates its tokens (bitcoins) with a predetermined
    algorithm that cannot be changed and those tokens are necessary for
    the Bitcoin to function. Bitcoin miners are rewarded with bitcoins
    for their contributions in securing the Bitcoin network.

3.  All changes to Bitcoin must be approved by a majority consensus of
    its users through the proof-of-work mechanism.

### Classification of decentralized applications

There are several characteristics according to which decentralized
applications can be classified. For the purposes of this paper, we will
classify DAs based on whether they have their own block chain or they
use the block chain of another DA. Based on this characteristic, there
are three types of DAs.

**Type I** decentralized applications have their own block chain.
Bitcoin is the most famous example of a type I decentralized application
but Litecoin and other "alt-coins" belong to the same type.

**Type II** decentralized applications use the block chain of a type I
decentralized application. Type II decentralized applications are
protocols and have tokens that are necessary for their function. The
Master Protocol is an example of a type II decentralized application.

**Type III** decentralized applications use the protocol of a type II
decentralized application. Type II decentralized applications are
protocols and have tokens that are necessary for their function. A
hypothetical Cloud Protocol that uses the Master Protocol to issue
cloudcoins that can be used to acquire cloud computing services could be
an example of a type III decentralized application.

A useful analogy for a type I DA is an operating system (like Windows,
Mac OS X, Linux, Android, iOS) for a type II DA a general purpose
software program (like a word processor, a spreadsheet software, a file
synchronization system such as Dropbox) and for type II DA, a
specialized software solution (like a mail-merge tool that uses a word
processor, an expense report macro that uses a spreadsheet, or a
blogging platform that uses Dropbox.) Using this analogy, it may be
expected that due to network effects and the ecosystem surrounding each
decentralized application, there will be a few type I DAs, more type II
DAs and even more type III DAs.

The operation of a decentralized application
--------------------------------------------

### Mechanisms for establishing consensus

There are two common mechanism by which DAs can etablish consensus: the
**proof-of-work**, POW, mechanism and the **proof of stake**, POS,
mechanism.

With the proof-of-work mechanism, decisions about changes in a DA are
made based on the amount of work that each stakeholder contributes to
the operation of the DA. Bitcoin uses that approach for its day today
operation, an approach that is also called mining.

With the proof-of-stake mechanism, decisions about changes in the DA are
made based on the percent ownership that various stakeholders have over
the application. For instance, the vote of a stakeholder who controls
10% of the tokens issued by a DA, carries a 10% weight. The Master
Protocol is based on the POS mechanism.

The two mechanisms can be used in parallel, as is the case with
[Peercoin](http://peercoin.net/). Such a combination allows a DA to
operate with less energy consumption than proof-of-work alone, and
allows the application to be more resistant to [51%
attacks](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Weaknesses).

### Mechanisms for distributing tokens

There are three common mechanisms by which DAs can distribute their
tokens: mining, fundraising and development.

With the mining mechanism, tokens are distributed to those who
contribute most work to the operation of a DA. Taking Bitcoin as an
example, bitcoins are distributed through a predetermined algorithm to
the miners that verify transactions and maintain the Bitcoin block
chain.

With the fundraising mechanism, tokens are distributed to those who fund
the initial development of the DA. Taking the Master Protocol as an
example, Mastercoins were initially distributed to those who sent
bitcoins to a given address at the rate of 100 Mastercoins per bitcoin
sent. The bitcoins collected were then used to fund the development of
applications that promoted the development of the Master Protocol.

WIth the development mechanism, tokens are generated using a predefined
mechanism and are only available for the development for the development
of the DA. In addition to fundraising mechanism, the Master Protocol
used the collaboration mechanism to fund its future development. An
additional 10% of the Mastercoins generated was set aside for
development of the Master Protocol. Those Mastercoins become available
through a pre-derminded schedule and are distributed via a
community-driven bounty system where decisions are made based on the
proof-of-stake mechanism.

To summarize: Tokens of a DA that establishes consensus through
proof-of-work are distributed by mining, by people buying directly from
miners and by trading for goods and services; that is the case with
Bitcoin. Tokens of a DA that establishes consensus through
proof-of-stake are distributed based on the contribution of stakeholders
during a fundraiser, by people collaborating on the development of the
DA and by trading for goods and services; that is the case with the
Master Protocol.

### Formation and development of a decentralized application

Study of existing decentralized applications suggests that their
development takes place in three steps.

**Step 1: A whitepaper is published describing the DA and its features**

As in the case of Bitcoin, the most common way by which a DA takes form
is by the public release a whitepaper that describes the protocol, its
features, and its implementation. After the public release, feedback
from the community is necessary for the further development of the DA.

**Step 2: Initial tokens are distributed**

If the DA is using the mining mechanism to distribute its tokens, a
reference software program should be released so that it can be used for
mining. In the case of Bitcoin, a reference software program was
released and the initial transaction block was created.

If the DA is using the fundraising mechanism, a wallet software should
become available to the stakeholders of the DA, so that they can
exchange the tokens of the DA. In the case of Mastercoin, an Exodus
fundraising address and a wallet script were publicly released.

If the DA is using the development mechanism, a bounty system should be
put in place that allows the suggestion of tasks to be performed, the
tracking of the people who are working on those tasks and the criteria
by which bounties can be awarded.

**Step 3: The ownership stake of the DA is spread**

As tokens from mining, fundraising and collaboration are distributed to
a greater number of participants, the ownership of the DA becomes less
and less centralized and the participants that held a majority stake at
earlier stages relinquish their control. As the DA matures, participants
with more diverse skills are incentivized to make valuable
contributions, and the ownership of the DA is spread.

The case of Bitcoin provides an example of such a development. By some
estimates, Satoshi Nakamoto mined many of the first 1,000,000 bitcoins.
However, as the Bitcoin network grew, other participants mined bitcoins
and now that more than 12,000,000 bitcoins are in circulation Satoshi
Nakamoto's high original ownership stake has been diluted.

Conclusion
----------

DAs have the potential to become self-sustaining because they empower
their stakeholders to invest in the development of the DA. Through
market forces the tokens of a DA are transferred to those who value it
the most. Those individuals then can contribute to the development of
the DA in the areas that they have an expertise. The case of Bitcoin
illustrates the point. As developers contributed code and miners
contributed computational power to the Bitcoin network, the market began
to value bitcoins more highly. As the system matured even more, people
with diverse skills started valuing Bitcoin and contributing to its
development.

DAs for payments, social networking, and cloud computing may one day
surpass the valuation of multinational corporations like Western Union,
Visa, Facebook, Google, and Amazon.

* * * * *

Appendix
--------

### Legal model for decentralized applications

Open-source software has established the legal framework that DAs can be
built upon. The Bitcoin project, for example, operates under the
open-source MIT license. The Mastercoin project, similarly, requires all
submissions to its competitions to be open-source and available to the
community. Operating under open-source licenses allows DAs to be open
for innovation without restrictions of copyright or patent.

### The Coming Wave of Type III Decentralized Applications Built On Top of The Bitcoin Protocol - Additional Layers such as Mastercoin Protocol

**A. The Bitcoin Protocol Adapts to Allow Meta Data in the Blockchain**

A growing movement has been seeking to leverage the Bitcoin blockchain
by embedding additional data with each transaction. This embedded data
allows for additional protocols / features on top of the Bitcoin
protocol including distributed exchanges, smart property, user
currencies and so forth. This movement has culminated with the 0.9
version of the Bitcoin reference client implementing a straightforward
method for creating these outputs and storing them in the blockchain.

In “Core Development Update \#5” Gavin Andresen goes in depth about how
these “Provably Prune-ably Outputs” will work in a balanced way. The
solution allows those not wanting to store these outputs to “prune” them
from the database and those that want to store them to maintain full
record “archive nodes”. He offers details about the decision and pull
request \#2738: “Relay OP\_RETURN data TxOut as standard tranDAction
type[[6]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt6)”.  

Pull request \#2738 lets developers associate up to 80 bytes of
arbitrary data with their tranDActions by adding an extra “immediately
prune-able” zero-valued output. Why 80 bytes? …”most uses will be to
hash some larger data (perhaps a contract of some sort) and then embed
the hash plus maybe a little bit of metadata into the output.”

**B. New Protocol Layers On Bitcoin Rapidly Developing**

This development is an incredibly important for protocols that are being
developed on top of the Bitcoin protocol. With the door to the Bitcoin
protocol wide open the imagination is the only limit to the types of
services that can be provided. These new services benefit from the
encryption infrastructure of Bitcoin and the increasingly impossible to
attack size of the Bitcoin hashing power / network.

One of the first such protocol layers to be developed on top of the
Bitcoin protocol is the Mastercoin protocol. The decentralized
application launched shortly before the update to the Bitcoin protocol
and when the announcement was made, the developers of the Mastercoin
protocol moved to update their protocol in accordance with these new
type of provably prune able outputs.

The Mastercoin protocol in turn enables its users to record “smart
property / user currencies” in the blockchain record, which serve as the
basis for token systems of the next layer of Decentralized Apps. The
authors of this paper are aware of many such applications in the stages
of planning and active development to be released in the near future as
the 2nd layer Mastercoin protocol releases additional features that
enable their functions (see below).  

### Decentralized Applications in Operation and Under Development

Here are some existing and planned Decentralized Apps that will appear
in the coming year. The common denominator is they all utilize the model
described in this paper:

-   Bitcoin, Type I Decentralized App - Providing an underlying transfer
    protocol, time stamping, record keeping and more.
-   Bitshare, Type I Decentralized App Stock exchange on own blockchain.
-   Mastercoin, Type II Decentralized App - Recording smart property and
    user currencies on top of the Bitcoin Blockchain.
-   healthcoin, Type III Decentralized App –  Cloud storage of files,
    docs, & websites.
-   Computecoin, Type III  Decentralized App – Cloud compute service for
    general use.
-   Meshcoin, Type III  Decentralized App – Mesh Network Internet
    Service Provider.
-   Healthcoin, Type III Decentralized App– Insurance service that
    reimburses loss.
-   Arbitrationcoin, Type III Decentralized App – Lets two parties
    settle disputes trust-lessly.
-   Ai-coin, Type III Decentralized App -  Providing intelligent
    automated actions to users

### Why Not Term These “Distributed Autonomous Corporations”?

**I. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Issues**

It is worth while to note that the authors of this paper agree with many
of the concepts proposed by the Invictus authors and the spirit and
ethics they  we embrace wholeheartedly. The point on which we disagree
is one of property terminology, “Distributed” and “Autonomous” are great
terms, we don’t believe “Corporation” in particular is a desirable term
for these entities. One of our primary reservations with using the term
is, “Corporation” carries a lot of historical and legal baggage that
won’t necessarily best serve the community of developers and
entrepreneurs seeking to describe and build these new projects.  If you
Google the definition of “Corporation” the result is: “a company or
group of people authorized to act as a single entity (legally a person)
and recognized as such in law.”

Is Bitcoin a group of people? Yes it has a group of users and miners.
But is Bitcoin a legally recognized company or group, which has sought
incorporation by a nation state? In short, no it is not. We recognise
that the DAC author makes the distinction between a “Real Corporation”
and their “Distributed Autonomous Corporation”, but I’d strongly
encourage anyone using this label to consider that even being in the
same category (as Corporations) brings up a whole host of regulatory and
compliance issues that would bring with it an extremely onerous burden
to all those involved in their development. Without going into detail
here the reader can brush up on securities laws, labor laws, and many
other bodies of regulation that hypothetically could be forced on
participants of a “Distributed Autonomous Corporation”. Just as in many
cases Bitcoin companies have had to deal with draconian regulations
associated with money transmission for what amounts to trading a
software token for fiat currency. Much of this is due to the fact that
Bitcoin is primarily seen by regulators, and the general public as a
“Digital Currency”. The lessons of the past here will serve well the
wise student of history who learns them. Language and classification
matters a great deal.

**II. DAC Classification Includes Many Legacy Hierarchy Based
Structures**

This paper’s classification and definition is significantly different
from the DAC paper. Their write up mentions things such as:

-   It can raise capital by selling shares of its stock and pay
    dividends.
-   It can raise capital by borrowing against its stock and pay
    interest.
-   It can raise capital by providing services of value to its
    customers.
-   It can use stock to pay persons (human or artificial) for resources
    and services.
-   It can use Internet APIs to automate access to its products and
    services.
-   It can adapt its business processes in response to market feedback.
-   It can use stock transfers to (fairly) reward or penalize the
    behavior of others.

In the view of this paper this above description contains unneeded cruft
that is a legacy of regular Corporations and centralized hierarchy
system.

The Bitcoin example is so powerful and elegant, because it doesn't have
to do any of those things traditional corporate functions. The ownership
of the tokens is required for the holder to use the system. Its that
simple. The user buys or earns the tokens to use the application. The
tokens have as much value as the number of people desiring them. All the
incentives, all the monetization, all the functions are built into this
beautifully simple structure. You own Bitcoins, in order to use the
Bitcoin client applications, which implement the Bitcoin protocol.

This white paper is focused on Decentralized Applications that have a
finite number of tokens and that require the use of those tokens in the
application’s operation. Our view is that it is not required to
re-create the functions that used to be required in centralized
corporations in order to balance the power of shareholders and offer
returns for investors, employees and so forth.

The Bitcoin Open Source project is not a Corporation. Its a set of
applications that implement the Bitcoin Protocol. It has no employees,
it will pay no dividends, it will never borrows against its stock, it
will never do a stock split, and it is not incorporated by a state. And
that's a good thing. I can trust the Bitcoin system and its elegant
protocol.

**III. Our Classifications Is Fundamentally Different**

As stated in the introduction we have developed a simpler definition to
classify these Decentralized Applications, which excludes many of these
“Corporate” legacies:

We define Decentralized Applications as follows:

-   Qualification 1. To qualify as “Decentralized” an application must
    be completely open source, it must operate autonomously with no one
    entity controlling the majority of its tokens, and its data /
    records of operation must be cryptographically stored in a
    decentralized blockchain.
-   Qualification 2. Decentralized Apps must also generate tokens
    according to a standard algorithm / criteria over time and / or
    distribute tokens at the beginning of their operation (in accordance
    with their protocol) to reward predefined value adding behaviors by
    users. These same tokens must be utilized by users to access the
    features of the Decentralized App.
-   Qualification 3. The Decentralized App can adapt its protocol in
    response to proposed developer improvements and market feedback,
    though all changes which are accepted into the protocol must be
    based on the majority consensus of its users through Proof of Work,
    Proof of Stake, or a similar mechanism(s).

### What about Open Source Apps Based on an Existing Blockchain? 

There are a number of excellent open source projects being developed on
existing Type I Decentralized Apps; examples include the Colored
Coins[[7]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt7) and
Coinjoin[[8]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt8) projects being
developed on Bitcoin. These open source projects benefit Bitcoin users
generally with additional meta data storage and privacy respectively.
However the lack of an independent token for users to access / hold a
stake in the operation and development of these applications, leaves the
development and operation of these projects dependent on donations and
unable to achieve a self sustaining and “Decentralized Application”
status.

### Etymology - Decentralized Applications part of a larger framework

For etymology, I believe considering that at some point we will need a
metaphor set out of which the language for development would evolve. It
needs to be well grounded, accessible to all with minor effort and have
an inherent virtue of
simplexity[[9]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt9). Hopefully so
much so that it perhaps could also be utilized at points of conceptual
interfaces for the end user. The key to this all is the name, one that
would spawn a general terminology for this very new thing we are doing
here. I think the metaphor set based on conception would fit well.
A[ ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zygote)[Zygote](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zygote).
A Zygote is the first point where the first generation ends and the next
begins.

It acclimates, responding to the outside world without changing the
genes. It can't be regulated. It's stuck with it's own genes. It’s
clearly recursive. As I see it the Zygote metaphor follows whatever
requirements a Decentralized Application does. Namely, Autonomous (stuck
with it’s own genes) Application (of course, it’s a cell) Clearly it is
distributed, and it’s is also like a company where a group of components
authorized to act as a single entity (legally a person predefined
sovereignty) and recognized as such in law global consensus.” Self
sustaining.

It’s not a cell though, so what is it? It’s bits and pieces of code.
Let’s be audacious enough to say bits, Zygotic bits, “zybits.” Fresh and
familiare.

etymology: zygote

Zygotic Protocol = ZyProtocol  

Zygotic Application = ZyApp

Zygotic ENtity = ZEN

Zygosis (relation to meiosis and/or mitosis)

Zygonomics = Zypotic Economics

Zygotic Bit = ZyBit

ZyAngels

ZENangels

**just examples below**

ZyCoding

ZyMarketing

ZyCapital

ZyBranding

ZyDesign

References

​14. References.

 

http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

* * * * *

[[1]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref1) Larimer, Stan. “[The
Three Laws of Robotics for
DACs](http://letstalkbitcoin.com/bitcoin-and-the-three-laws-of-robotics/#.Uo0CBmTzZ2n).”
LetsTalkBitcoin.com

[[2]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref2) Nakamoto, Satoshi.
[Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash
System](http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf). Bitcoin.org, Nov. 2008.

[[3]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref3) “[Multinational
Corporation](http://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/multinationalcorporation.asp).”
Investopedia.com.

[[4]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref4) “[Mining](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Mining)”.
The Bitcoin Wiki.

[[5]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref5) “Bitcoin Network”.  

[[6]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref6) Garzik, Jeff. “[Relay
OP\_RETURN data TxOut as standard transaction
type](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/2738)” Github.com

[[7]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref7) [BitcoinX/Colored
Coins
abstract](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AnkP_cVZTCMLIzw4DvsW6M8Q2JC0lIzrTLuoWu2z1BE)

[[8]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref8) Maxwell, Gregory.
“[CoinJoin: Bitcoin privacy for the digital
world](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=279249.0)”

[[9]](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com#ftnt_ref9) “[Simplexity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simplexity)”
Wikipedia.

ZyBranding ZyDesign

References

14. References. https://github.com/mastercoin-MSC/spec\#dev-mastercoins

http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
